Lidar is a sensor.
Lidar stands for light detection and ranging.
Like analog to radar.
It sends out beams of light,
and it measures how long it takes for the beam of light to come back.
So it determines the distance to an object.
A lidar contains a laser.
A lidar is just a contraption basically consisting of a laser,
a method of deflection basically scanning that laser beam across the field of view,
and photo diode or a photo detector that
detects the incoming photons that are reflected from the object.
So the laser sends out a very short pulse, few nanoseconds,
and then measures the time it takes for the pulse to go to the object,
and back to the lidar where it's detected.
This time gives us then an indication,
or gives us the exact distance to that object.
You scan this laser beams across the field of view,
which means you get for each point in the field of view,
a distance to an object or no distance if there is no object there whatsoever.
From this, it tells you exactly what objects there are,
and how far away they are.
We use lidar as one sensor in our overall sensor suite.
We have several different kinds of sensors.
We have lidar, we have radar,
and we have various cameras, and ultrasound.
All of those sensors work together to detect,
and track objects in the environment.